.Dd 2015-10-10
.Dt CUTL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cutl
.Nd Access credit union banking sites
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ic transactions Op options
.Nm
.Ic accounts Op options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool for accessing one's banking data from the credit union website
.Dq cuaccount-access.com .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -compact -width ".Fl \-method Ar method Pq Fl m"
.It Fl \-help Pq Fl h
Get info about a command
.It Fl \-verbose Pq Fl v
Output feedback as a command is executing
.It Fl vv
Output more debug info
.It Fl \-no\-cache Pq Fl n
Skip cached command responses
.It Fl \-method Ar method Pq Fl m
Account login verification method:
.Cm text
or
.Cm phone
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width 2n
.It Nm accounts Op options
List accounts and other details. Output a header with the account-holder's
name and sign-on activity, followed by TSV of current accounts.
.Pp
The columns outputed are:
ID, Account Name, Number, Available Balance, Current Balance.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact  -width ".Fl \-account Ar account Pq Fl A"
.It Fl \-no-header Pq Fl H
Omit the header. Useful for scripting.
.El
.It Nm transactions Op options
Get a listing of transactions in one or all accounts.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact -width ".Fl \-account Ar account Pq Fl A"
.It Fl \-account Ar account Pq Fl A
Account to query, or all if omitted
.It Fl \-format Ar format Pq Fl f
Data format to output (default is text):
.Cm text | xls | qfx | qif | qbo | iif | bai2 | ledger
.It Fl \-delimiter Ar delim Pq Fl d
Delimiter for text format (default is tab):
.Cm tab | space | comma
.It Fl \-type Ar type Pq Fl t
Transaction type (default is all):
.Cm all | deposits | checks | withdrawals
.El
.Pp
Date range options:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact -width ".Fl 30 | Fl 45 | Fl 60 | Fl 90"
.It Fl \-all Pq Fl A
All time
.It Fl \-current Pq Fl c
Current statement (default)
.It Fl \-yesterday Pq Fl y
Yesterday only
.It Fl 30 | Fl 45 | Fl 60 | Fl 90
Last N days
.El
.Pp
Fixed date range (overrides other date options):
.Pp
.Bl -tag -compact  -width ".It Fl \-begin Ar MM/DD/YYYY Pq Fl b"
.It Fl \-begin Ar MM/DD/YYYY Pq Fl b
Start date
.It Fl \-end Ar MM/DD/YYYY Pq Fl e
End date
.El
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -compact -width CUTL_CODE_METHOD
.It Ev CUTL_CONFIG_FILE
Path to the
.Nm
config file. Default is ~/.config/cutlrc
.It Ev CUTL_CU_NAME
The name of the credit union which forms part of the URL.
Default is GeneseeCoopFCU. Case-insensitive.
.It Ev CUTL_CU_SITE
The base URL of the credit union banking site. Default is
.Lk https://secure.cuaccount-access.com/$CUTL_CU_NAME
.It Ev CUTL_COOKIEJAR
File for reading and writing cookies to. Default is ~/.cutl_cookies.txt
.It Ev CUTL_CACHE_DIR
Directory in which to store cached requests. Default is /tmp/cutl-$LOGNAME
.It Ev CUTL_USERNAME
Username of credit union account. If empty, user is prompted during login.
.It Ev CUTL_PASSWORD
Password for credit union account.
.It Ev CUTL_PASSCMD
Command to get password for credit union account.
.Pp
If
Ev CUTL_PASSWORD
and
Ev CUTL_PASSCMD
are empty, user is prompted for the password during login.
.Pp
.It Ev CUTL_PHONE
International phone number. Format is country code, followed by space, followed
by the phone number.
.It Ev CUTL_PHONE_US
US/Canada phone number. Format is "XXX XXX XXXX" beginning with area code.
.Pp
Either
.Ev CUTL_PHONE
or
.Ev CUTL_PHONE_US
is used for login verification via text message. If both variables are empty,
the user is prompted for the phone number during the login process if using
.Dq text
login code method.
.Pp
.It Ev CUTL_CODE_METHOD
The login verification method. Value is
.Dq text
or
.Dq phone .
Overridden by
.Fl \-method .
If unset, user is prompted to choose one during login.
.It Ev CUTL_TRANSACTION_FORMAT
Default output format for
.Nm
.Ic transactions ,
overridden by
.Fl \-format .
Default is
.Dq text .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Pa ~/.config/cutlrc
Configuration script, read on start for config variables. Overridden by
.Ev CUTL_CONFIG_FILE .
.It Pa ~/.cutl_cookies.txt
File to store cookies in.
Overridden by
.Ev CUTL_COOKIEJAR .
.It Pa /tmp/cutl-$LOGNAME
Directory for storing cached request data. Overridden by
.Ev CUTL_CACHE_DIR .
.El
.Sh CAVEATS
Currently, login via
.Cm text
method does not work, and login via
.Cm phone
method is not fully tested.
